=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=
 MajorMUD - Realm of Legends                                 Release Notes
=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=
                     +   Version 1.11m - 02/03/2003   +
1) Teleporting to the Grand Chamber can now be done unlimited times,
   provided you are at least level 65. 
2) You can now enter the lair of the adult red dragon without needing  
   a magma amulet
3) All doors in the Crimson Passage area are bashable.
4) Having over 100 strength will now yeild an extra encumbrance bonus
   over the regular amount.
5) The typo for Enumbrance when checking inventory is fixed.
6) Other misc. changes

                     +   Version 1.11l - 01/23/2003   +
1) Level 66-75 trainer for solo players added to the existing trainer area, 
   check the first level for clues. Once you have entered the solo trainer    
   area through the first level, you may help other players to reach the 
   final floor, and then enter the solo trainer area through that floor.
2) Changed the phoenix feather to have the same immunities as the 
   magma amulet. 
3) It is now possible to enter lava pools without a magma amulet. Without   
   wearing either the magma amulet or phoenix feather, you will now take    
   damage from magma heat.
4) Fixed the bug with the apparatus quest that didn't allow players that 
   completed it before 1.11j to re-complete it.
5) Fixed several grammar and typo errors as reported by players, 
   special thanks go to Titania Hrothgar and Radi for their extensive list of 
   errors and suggestions.
6) Fixed some other data-releated bugs as reported by players, special thanks 
   to everyone who emailed Frost, and thanks to Frost for compiling the list.
7) It is again possible to change the alignment quest you are on, you can
   pledge in the room above the fountain (still requiring a smokey talisman).
   You can only change your alignment after completing the first quest. 
8) Other misc. changes

                     +   Version 1.11k - 01/03/2003   +

1) The exp<space><text> crashing bug is fixed
2) Any player completing the red dragon ruby quest in J will lose the
   experience gained. Upon entering the realm your level will be set to
   coincide with the amount minus the quest experience. You may then log out
   and re-enter to retrain your stats.
3) Bonus stats lost by re-completing the Ice Throne, Darkwood Gem and
   Apparatus quests will now be re-added to your character. If you have not
   re-completed these quests you will lose the bonuses gained by those quests
   until you have recompleted them.
4) The golden chalice quest can now only be completed by returning the
   chalice to the bishop, instead of touching the black fortress alter.
5) Other misc. changes

                     +   Version 1.11j - 12/23/2002   +

1)  The formula for determining the accuracy of a regular attack has changed,
    it is now determined by your combat class, strength, agility, and
    item/spell accuracy.
2)  The formula for determining if an attack is successful has been changed.
    The accuracy cap dependent upon the armour class of the defender is now
    removed. An attackers chance to hit is now based on a curve
3)  The method for combat has been changed, a critical hit is now determined
    only after a hit has been determined.
4)  The formula for determing dodge has been changed, it is now checked
    against the accuracy of the attacker to determine if the defender
    dodged. Your chance to dodge will vary dependant upon the attackers you
    do battle with.
5)  The amount of damage resisted by a magic spell, based on magic
    resistance, has been changed.
6)  The amount of damage resisted by a magic spell, cast on a witchunter, is
    now enhanced when compared to non-witchunter targets.
7)  It is now possible to take no damage from an attack, based on your damage
    reduction. If your damage reduction is higher then the damage value of
    the attack, the attack will 'glance' off your armour.
8)  The amount of damage reduction given by armour has been changed to
    reflect the liklihood of that armour deflecting an attack.
9)  Attemping to go through an exit that does not exist in the room will now
    stop you from sneaking.
10) New items have been added to various monsters/shops in the realm.
11) Most "Chest" monsters have now been changed to "chest" items.
12) The experience given for most boss monsters is now increased, and in most
    cases, greater then the previous cap. In lieu of this increase some boss
    monsters were changed to reflect amount of experience given.
13) Most monsters will no longer cast a spell more times round then a player
    could.
14) An area to allow training up to level 75 has been added. An NPC in
    Khazarad will give clues to the location of the area. Once you train past
    level 67, you will not be required to go through the entire area to
    recieve training past that level.
15) The amount of experience given by quests is now increased, and level
    restricted based on their intended completion, and amount given. If you
    have already completed any quest except for the alignment quests merely
    redo them, and you will be compensated. Compensation for the alignment
    quests can only be recieved once you complete up through the 5th alignment
    quest (Module 9: Prophecy of Plague) and ask your alignment leader about
    "Reconcile"
16) If you have completed the 4th alignment quest (Module 7: Savage Lands)
    and somehow lost your quest cloak, you may now get another one by asking
    your alignment leader about "Cloak". To avoid abuse of this option, quest
    cloaks can no longer be dropped or given away.
17) Other misc. changes

                   + Version 1.11i + Patch - 1/10/2001 +

1) Fixed crashing caused by Lord of the Hunt, nexus spear, and Dusk.
2) Added a fail safe to the hideous face not appearing
3) The first good and neutral quest now requires you make a full round trip
   from Markus to Annora
4) The witchunter quest in the Crimson Fortress is now repeatable.
5) The doors in the Negative Power Planes are bashable.

                   + Version 1.11i - 12/21/2001 +

1) Area effect spells that cause damage should no longer be resisted by
   monsters.
2) Fixed two crashing bugs caused by a monster and a room spell.
3) Fixed monsters that regenned out of their intended area.
4) Linked rooms that were broken in some areas.
5) Changed the 5th evil quest to give appropriate flags and items so someone
   who did their steps out of order wouldn't be stuck.
6) Enabled the 5th quest to allow someone who didn't follow their quest
   directions in 1.11h to complete their quest.
7) Changed some monster resistances so they will take no damage instead of
   being healed by spells.
8) Fixed other miscellaneous bugs.

                   + Version 1.11h - 11/30/2001 +

1)  Added training to level 65 at the Hydra.
2)  Fixed toplist display for characters that have passed the 4.2 billion
    mark for people previously running the beta patch.
3)  Fixed toplist display for characters that have rerolled and retained 
    some experience for people previously running the beta patch.
4)  Fixed display of experience to next level in the player's exp line for
    people previously running the beta patch.
5)  Added the command "unstock all" for gangshop owners to fix the problem
    where shops did not have all 10 slots available to them.
6)  Fixed several memory related issues that may or may not resolve the 
    NT regen problems in prior versions.
7)  Changed sys jail to become a more effective "time out" for problem
    users. This does *NOT* effect monster jail such as guards or the 
    sheriff. Now, when a player is sent to jail using the sys god
    commands, they will be placed in "isolation" for 30 minutes, where
    they cannot speak, telepath, gossip, auction, broadcast, etc. They
    will only be able to sit and wear their time off or exit the realm. 
    If they exit, their timer does not go away, it takes up where they
    left off when they come back.
8)  Removed quest resetting via the smoky black talisman. Players will
    now be able to "pledge" an alignment after they have completed the
    3rd alignment quest and before they have started the 5th alignment
    quest. This will convert their quest flags to the appropriate 
    equivalent of the new alignment they have pledged. 
9)  Fixed the coding bug that allowed some bbses to access Module 8 areas
    without having purchased an activation code.
10) Level 10 quest weapons are now magic 2, monsters with a magic 3 rating 
    or higher can't be hit. Additionally, level 10 training must be done
    in the crypt now, at the respective quest spirits.
11) A new area has been added that contains a sidequest for witchunters.
    You must purchase Module 8 to access it.
12) A new sidequest has been added for gypsies, this quest is in Module 4.
13) A new sidequest has been added for missionaries, this quest is in Module
    6.
14) A new area has been added that allows access from Module 1 to Module 3
    w/o the amber talisman. 
15) New underground areas have been added that connect Module 1 to Baseline
    and Baseline to Module 4.
16) A new area has been added that directly connects the Darkwood Forest to
    the Slums.
17) The illumination spell now creates a magical "light ball" light item
    which has to be equipped to use.
18) Several new spells have been added for Priest, Bard, Mage and Druid,
    check all spell shops and boss monsters for new scrolls.
19) Some attack spells over level 35 have been upgraded to be more mana
    efficient.
20) Some monsters attacks that were essentially non magical have been
    flagged to be unaffected by magic resistance.
21) Some monster attacks that were based solely on weapon damage, have been
    increased to reflect the strength bonus that the monster would likely
    have.
22) Monsters now cast certain spells the same as players i.e. blind, hold
    person etc.
23) Many changes to existing items, some upgrades, some downgrades.  Make
    sure to experiment with them before going anywhere dangerous.
24) Removed shatter from the game until it can be reworked.
25) Shovel that can be used to dig with in the graveyard now have a random
    chance to break.
26) Capitalized the names of new boss monsters to make them stand out more.
27) Other misc. changes applied and bugs fixed

                   +        Version 1.11g - 10/23/2000       +

1)  Gangshop duplication bug is fixed.
2)  Ganghouse items removed from ganghouse floors at cleanup if 
    the items don't belong to that ganghouse.
3)  "Noises" lessened in Silvermere and surrounding areas.
4)  Park statues all set to be visible after cleanup
5)  Some bugs related to ganghouse commands fixed.
6)  You can now summon guards without them disappearing after cleanup
7)  Misc. spell and item bugs fixed.
8)  More items sellable in the junkyard and other stores.

                   +        Version 1.11f - 09/06/2000       +

1)  Chainmail armor is available to Warlocks.
2)  "Noises" added to Silvermere and surrounding areas.
3)  Most mystic forms no longer give a bonus to criticals or dodge.
4)  Silvermere graveyard expanded.
5)  Gravestones added to Silvermere Graveyard, five are BBS customizable.
6)  Negative Power Plane expanded and monsters added.
7)  Greet messages added to some monsters.
8)  Gangleaders can buy a healer in their ganghouse.
9)  Rubbish rooms added to each ganghouse.
10) Sections in the darkwood forest have been converted to gangshops for all
    ganghouses.
11) NT crash bug caused by cleanup now fixed.
12) Practice monster added to portal arena.
13) When dying in Silvermere Portal Arena or Silvermere Small Arena, you now
    appear outside the entrance.
14) Some monsters will now drop body parts to use as weapons.
15) Half-Ogres can now use kai powers.
16) Different levels of racial nightvision added.
17) Different levels of light items added.
18) Added new travel portals.
19) The Silvermere Casino is open.
20) Additional items added to the junkyard.
21) Statues added to the park, one for each class, customizable by BBS.
22) Gang emblems are now wearable.
23) Beginning alignment quest NPC's can now assist you in your current
    alignment quest.
24) Ganghouse keys now give a message when broken.


                   +        Version 1.11e - 05/12/2000       +

1)  Fixed item sweeping on ganghouses during cleanup. This should no longer
    happen unless done by your Sysop.
2)  Changed meditate regeneration to appropriately match natural mana
    regeneration per different spell groups.
3)  Increased accuracy, defence, and hold penalties for person/monster that
    is SMASHed per user feedback.
4)  Removed MUD Internal Error, attack_user_monster error when using weapon
    with an attached spell. This message should no longer appear.
5)  Fixed gangshop bug that allowed for mass duplication of items (thanks go
    out to the users that reported it!)
6)  Fixed traps that unnaturally boosted a monster's hp.
7)  Fixed "weird" swings and accuracy bug where a player would get 1 swing
    and then 10 swings etc. as well as sudden low accuracy.
8)  Fixed random scattering of monsters that left their regeneration area.
9)  Set specific mage and druid armor spells to be non stackable, and
    upgraded the value of higher level armor spells to compensate
    (Translation: stoneskin cancels barkskin, mageshield cancels blur and
    shld, however stoneskin and mageshield were upgraded).
10) Changed buggy ganghouse room descriptions.
11) Set ganghouse deeds to delete at cleanup if on the floor.
12) Increased life of dying master assassin per user feedback.
13) Adjusted Lieutenant flag so that is is removed in all cases that a player
    leaves a gang.


                   +        Version 1.11d - 05/02/2000       +

1)  Fixed the crashing related to drain weapons.
2)  Fixed crashing related to constrictor coils.
3)  Modified gang house cleanup process. Some people were reporting double
    fault during cleanup. This problem should be resolved. Please report
    any continued problems to bugs@majormud.com
4)  Fixed problem where people could premote or demote members of other
    gangs. This function should now be working properly.
5)  Fixed shops deleting inventory at cleanup.
6)  Added some missing gang house room descriptions.
7)  Adjusted the AC up on the jeweled turban and golden headdress due to
    user feedback.
8)  This release does not include all bugs reported with 1.11c, but a release
    was necessary to resolve some of the more important issues quickly. An
    additional release will follow in the near future.


                   +        Version 1.11c - 04/28/2000       +

1)  Ganghouses! Introduced ten ganghouses scattered across the realm. All
    have user-customizable room and item descriptions. Locations to
    Ganghouses are described in ganghouse "Deeds".
2)  New "Deed" items, sold in the Deed Shop, purchasable only by the gang
    leader with gang experience requirements set by the Sysop. Deeds handle
    distribution of ganghouse keys and emblems, also the deed holder is the
    only person who can control the ganghouse shop.
3)  New guardian monsters for ganghouses, these monsters guard the
    ganghouses from non gang-members. Emblems are required by gang members
    to signify they belong to that gang. WARNING: IF YOU ATTACK THE
    GUARDIANS WITH AN EMBLEM THEY WILL CONTINUE TO ATTACK UNTIL CLEANUP.
4)  Added STOCK command for Gang Shops, "STOCK <item> <price> <currency>".
5)  Added UNSTOCK command for Gang Shops, "UNSTOCK <item>".
6)  Added MARKUP command for Gang Shops, "MARKUP <percent>".
7)  Added new gang member type "Lieutenant". Lieutenants can invite or
    uninvite gang members without requiring the gang leader to be online.
8)  Added PROMOTE gang command, "PROMOTE <player name>", used to promote a
    member to lieutenant. This command is for the gang leader only.
9)  Added DEMOTE gang command, "DEMOTE <player name>", used to demote a
    lieutenant to member. This command is for the gang leader only.
10) Ganghouse rooms and items are customizable. Descriptions are stored in
    a text file specified in the default file descriptions. You must create
    the new description in a text file and give to your Sysop.
11) Set certain spells to remove spells of like ability as they are not
    stackable. These changes were done to discourage use of the "10 spell"
    bug.
12) Certain items set to magical due to their magic effects as per extensive
    user feedback.
13) Lowered magic resistance of certain items, as per extensive user
    feedback.
14) Mystic fighting forms changed per further testing and user feedback.
15) Fixed bugs concerning certain monsters and monster regen areas due to
    extensive difficulty.
16) Changed Bash Attack Type, as well as attack, damage and speed modifiers.
17) Added new abilities, allowing for additional commands to be used or
    class abilities to be enhanced upon quest completion.
18) Added taxation of ganghouses to prevent ganghouse hoarding or stagnation.
    Taxation is withdrawn directly from the gang leader's Silvermere bank
    account, and specified in the deed description.


                   +        Version 1.11b - 01/28/2000       +

1)  Swamp trolls and two-headed troll are no longer "immortal" once they
    regen. This problem has now been resolved. Again, please report any
    problems with trolls you find.
2)  Critical hits formulas reworked. There should still be a limit on the
    bonus to crit from using a "quick and deadly" weapon, however percentage
    on normal critical hits should no longer be effected.
3)  Some misc. quest issues regarding Module 7 were repaired.
4)  Loyal items including new quest items now stay with the owner even
    if a hang up is detected during combat. Loyal items should stay with
    the owner in all cases.
5)  Fang for magma blast now placed on monster.
6)  Fixed doors that wouldn't open in various areas.
7)  Fixed alder chest.
8)  Fixed Shadowy Healer.
9)  Fixed crashing problem related to manriki-gusari.
10) Increased drop rate percentage on some quest related items.


                   +        Version 1.11a - 12/30/1999       +

1)  Fixed wrong message for platinum mace and other grammar corrections.
2)  Fixed some misc. room errors and other reported problems.
3)  Reports that trolls were impossible to kill, should now be fixed.
    Please report to us if this problem still exists. Also, please include
    the version of Worldgroup or MajorBBS you are running when reporting any
    errors to us, so that we may test on that platform.
4)  Changed release version scheme. 1.11a through 1.11z, then 1.12a through
    1.12z and so on.. will be the new order for minor changes, where a major
    release would skip to 1.2 and so forth.


                   +        Version 1.1z - 12/28/1999        +

1)  Fixed some quest problems that were missed in a final update.
2)  Grammar fixes that were pushed in at the same time as #1.


                   +        Version 1.1y - 12/28/1999        +

1)  Made some quest monsters stationary, where before they were moveable.
2)  Introduced new exit type "Spell Trap". This will allow for more
    imaginative traps in future modules, and will help with guildhouses when
    they are introduced.
3)  Newest mystic powers not gainable by training. This shouldn't be
    considered the standard for future mods.
4)  Upgraded values and/or durations for all spell groups. Everyone try out
    your spells, you should be pleasantly suprised.
5)  Changed bland spell descriptions of some spells (ex: way of the monkey's
    description was DV.)
6)  Changed attack combat messages to reflect "old-style" messages, this is
    in transition and currently permenant. Please report any errors you find.
7)  Capped "quick and deadly" critical hit bonus. Before, "Q and D" gave an
    unlimited bonus to criticals, now it should only add 10% of natural
    critical hit %. (ex: Natural crit% is 20, with QnD weapon: 22%. This does
    not effect mystic attacks (pu, ki, ju), this change is transitional.
8)  Introduced ability to learn spells via NPC interaction. This may be seen
    in later releases.
9)  Introduced a good-friendly script area, (monsters attack evils, don't
    attack good, and no eps taken.)
10) Changed class titles up to level 55. "Master" title is now not currently
    achievable. Feedback is welcomed.
11) Boosted some limited items powers/abilities up to reflect the rarity of
    the item. (ie: Lim 1 items should, in most cases, be better then Lim 3
    items.) This includes quest items.
12) Made first quest items require you be at least level 10 before you can
    use them, as you can't normally get them until you are level 10.
13) Changed critical hits back to red from yellow by popular demand.
14) Changed quest rings to become "loyal items". This should fix quest rings
    "poofing" on death.
15) Added quest rings to be dropped by some new monsters so those that lost
    their rings can now replace.
16) Started fixing some pre-Module 7 message spelling and bug errors. Please
    report any still outstanding that are discovered.


                    +         Version 1.1x - 6/18/99          +

1)  Added more name length validation in character creation.
2)  Modifications to attack messages
3)  Lots of internal enhancements that will show up in future releases
4)  Monsters will now resist area-effect spells properly
5)  Fixed another aspect of the mermex poison bug :)
6)  Fixed some cases where an invited player can show up in your party 
    when you never invited them in the first place.
7)  If you do something to cause you to lose experience you will not 
    destroy your gang experience anymore
8)  Recasting with 'c' will restart combat when done during combat in
    the same manner as re-attacking with 'a' does.
9)  Cleaned up some extra text displayed when going through remote-action 
    item-required exits.
10) Fixed up /mudreg a bit and fixed the addlife option for some users
11) The thieves kit will only enhance picklocks/find traps - it will 
    no longer give the abilities to characters that do not already 
    have them.
12) Number-limited Angel-type monsters that disappear when the user they 
    are following loses them will now correctly update the active count for
    their kind.
13) If a monster kills you with a spell then they will no longer get an
    additional attack on you after you are dead.
14) Minor top player ANSI listing adjustment.
       ------------------------------------------------------
15) Changed contact information to reflect new ownership and authors inside
    the game and various notes and docs.
16) Recompiled on new development systems for various platforms.
17) Softened and changed magic resistance system for area spells to have
    a lesser impact on players than steps introduced in 4) above.
18) Corrected string substition and grammatical problems in new attack
    messages.

                    +         Version 1.1w - 12/16/98          +

1)  Items that give you valueless abilities (such as poison immunity)
    will now work properly.
2)  Autocombat no longer breaks when you run out of mana.  It does,
    however, consume your energy for an entire round of attacks 
    each attack round that you're in auto-combat while casting a 
    spell without enough mana to cast it.   
3)  If a monster attacks you while you are sneaking it will now break
    your sneak and penalize your next stealth roll in the same way it
    does when a user attacks you.
4)  If you switched race to a gaunt-one, completed the quest to get
    the see-hidden ability, and then switched to another race you would
    accidentally keep this ability.  This patch now fixes that so that
    you do not get this ability any more.
5)  After purging spells from your spellbook you would sometimes lose 
    other spells from the spell listing (even though you still had the
    spells).  This shouldn't happen anymore.
6)  Help topics shouldn't cut off the last line anymore
7)  Adjusted the HP formulas slightly to give everyone a bit more hp/level.
8)  If you backstab someone, break combat, switch weapons to a non-backstab
    weapon, cast a combat spell on them, break combat, and recast with 'c' 
    it will no longer give you a 'you cannot backstab with this weapon'
    message.
9)  When you get experience for a kill via an area-effect spell it will
    no longer break your auto-combat so you can continue to get experience
    for the next kill in that room.
10) Reordered some code so that stats were updated immediately when you
    do something like wear or remove armour with special abilities, etc.
11) If you are sneaking and you have just entered a room you will now
    get a short break from being attacked by a monster.
12) [MMPLus] /mudreg global works properly with mixed-case names now
13) You should now be able to clear your last name (if your sysop is allowing
    blank last names)
14) The damage given by monster's spells will now display properly.
15) Increased the maximum spellcasting percent and maximum magicresistance
    percent by 1%
16) If you backstab someone and then switch to a different kind of attack
    before the backstab goes through you will now send a message to the
    target as if you initiated normal combat with them (i.e. you don't get
    a surprise non-backstab attack anymore).
17) Sped up training mystics so that it doesn't pause the BBS anymore.
18) Healing spells should display the original amount that was healed and
    not the adjusted amount (i.e. if you only needed 5 hp and healed for
    20 hp it will now say 20hp instead of 5 even though you only get the
    5)
19) Hopefully fixed the case where a monster would kill you and continue
    to hit you after you died and showed up in the halls-of-the-dead.  If
    this happens to you again, please send a capture of the battle and
    the damage given after you die to support@majormud.ca so we can
    isolate the real problem.
20) Gangs that go over 4 billion experience will no longer go back to 0.
21) Autocombat spells were sometimes being considered 'backstabs' with
    respect to autocombat order.  This has been fixed so they will now
    be the same as regular attacks.
22) When a combat spell is cast on you it will now break your sneak in
    the same manner as your sneak is broken when you are attacked.
23) If a user is knocked to 0 or less HP as a result of failing to 
    disarm a trap then the falls-to-the-ground message will be displayed.
24) If you have a monster charmed then it will show (charmed) beside the
    monster when looking at the room.
25) Fixed a few places where KAI powers would incorrectly fail.
26) Fixed one place where mud would incorrectly decide it should do an
    offline recovery at cleanup.
27) Freedom will now only affect spells with the Hold Person or 
    Paralyze abilities

                    +         Version 1.1V - 9/20/98            +

1)  Fixed high-level spells that hit for negative damage
2)  Various minor message fixes
3)  Autocombat will now break when you're casting a spell and run out
    of mana to cast the spell.
4)  Fixed the non-ansi character editor
5)  Items that are supposed to be removed from the ground at cleanup
    that are hidden will now be removed at cleanup.
6)  Fixed another bug which would stop you from getting evil points
    when attacking with area-effect spells.
7)  Gave everyone another chance to change race.  This is the LAST
    chance you get so don't waste it and don't come crying to WCC
    or your sysop if you make a bad choice.
8)  If you are confused while you are in combat it will no longer
    break your autocombat (you'll still be confused for the round,
    you just don't have to re-engage combat for the next round).
9)  Multi-cast per round spells will now properly recalculate the
    success/failure roll for the second and subsequent casts per round
10) Magic resistance is now being applied to area-effect damage spells
    as well as to spells cast on monsters.
11) Fixed some regeneration timers to ensure monsters generate if an
    area is not visited for an extended period of time or if the 
    regeneration interval is high.

                    +         Version 1.1v - 9/16/98            +
                    
1) People will have the random component of their HP rolls re-verified
   once and every time they change class or change race to one with a
   lower level than their current level with their current exp.  This
   will ensure that all existing characters get the benefits of the
   modified hp/level formulas.
2) The Magic Resistance formula has now been changed.  It is now based
   (roughly) like a normal stat such as Strength.  50 is an average
   number, while 100 is spectacular.  The stats affecting it are
   Willpower, which affects it greatly, and Intellect, which affects
   it slightly.  It does not increase per level now.
3) Magic Resistance will now greatly affect the damage from combat spells.
   If you have substandard MagicRes (below 50), you will take extra
   damage.  If you have good MagicRes, you will take less damage.  These
   changes are MUCH more dramatic than the previous damage reduction
   formulas-- Witchunters will find their +30 MagicRes to be extremely
   valuable when defending against damage spells now!  Players with
   substandard stats may wish to increase them, as we have been warning
   people for a long time that Willpower and MagicRes would soon become
   important.
4) Many of the combat damage spells have been changed to reflect the new
   MagicRes changes.  Many are much better, especially for Priests and
   Druids (try them!).
5) Area-effect damage spells such as Fireball have been changed
   dramatically.  They now use up much more Mana than before, but now
   do MORE damage than a regular combat spell of the equivalent level!
   This means that they can not only be used to blow up groups of
   enemies, but can even be effectively used against a single opponent
   if you wish to do more damage per round at the cost of using up
   vastly more mana.
6) Miscellaneous bugs have been fixed including the system freeze bug
                    
                    +         Version 1.1u - 9/9/98            +

1) Fixed custom statline to work with longer statlines
2) Monsters will now distribute items to surrounding rooms (and hide them) if
   the room they die in is full
3) Maximum attacks per round has now been capped at 5.
4) If you would theoretically have more than 5 attacks per round, you will
   still have your attacks limited to 5 but you will have an increased
   Critical Hit chance based on how much faster you are than 5 attacks.
5) If you ready a weapon with which you would have had more than 5 attacks,
   and obtain the increased chance to get a critical hit, then
   you will see the message "You are extremely quick and deadly with this
   weapon."
6) The effective chance of getting a critical hit has been HALVED, but the
   damage done has been DOUBLED.  People just get way too many crits
   now, and this change will make getting a critical hit more exciting.
7) Monsters should retaliate more often in response to area-effect attack
   spells.
8) Evil points will be given appropriately when area-effect attack spells
   are used against monsters.
9) You can no longer overload a user by giving them tons of money

                    +         Version 1.1t - 7/25/98           +

1) Mostly internal changes
2) Class titles that should have spaces in them will have spaces
3) Added command delays to some actions that should take time and should 
   not be able to be done in a fast-macro style (i.e. picklock, bash, etc.)
4) Tweaked target processing so that you can specify a shorter-match target by
   merely using the full name of the shorter match.  I.e. if there is a
   roc hatchling and a roc in the room, "a roc" will attack the roc now where
   before it would have been the first partial match found. 
5) You may no longer gossip, auction, or telepath when you have the receipt of 
   the associated messages turned off.
6) DEFENSE CHANGES:  The natural AC given by high Agility and Charm has been
   changed. Players now will receive a Dodge bonus based on their Agility and
   Charm. This replaces the previous AC bonus, and is cumulative with the
   current Dodge bonuses--i.e. Ninjas and Mystics will have this new Dodge
   added on to their Class Dodge chance.
7) MARTIAL ARTS CHANGES: The Martial Arts stat has been changed somewhat.
   Players will definitely notice a change in their Martial Arts value--
   however, the stats that make up this value (Dodge, Crits) have *not*
   been changed with the exception of players receiving a natural Dodge
   as described above.  This was due to inconsistancies in the formula when
   non-Ninja and non-Mystic classes received Dodge (as a result of the
   Multicoloured Sash or via a quest bonus, for example).


                    +         Version 1.1s - 5/6/98            +

1) Fix the quest resetting which was not giving back all the mana which it
   should have been
2) Added warning flag and default colouring to custom statline
      %w - Warning flag "On" or "Off"
      %d - use default colours (including hit point colouring)
      %n - insert a newline into the status line
   Example:  To display with green foreground except for the hit points:
   set statline custom %f2[Warn=%w]%nHP=%d%h%f2/%H >
3) Updated command line parsing to recognize keys when you enter more words
   to match a key than you would to match an item (i.e. "use star key west"
   will now work, even if you have another item such as "starsteel mace"
   which was previously incorrectly matching to 'star' and ignoring the 'key'

                    +         Version 1.1r - 2/28/98           +

1) Users who took advantage of interaction with other module bugs to increase
   their level artificially will be reduced back to the level they should be.
2) When rerolling at higher levels, if 10% of your experience results in more
   than the exp you would normally get for 1/2 your current levels then you
   will retain 10% of your experience.  This only works if your sysop has
   enabled the option to keep your experience after you reroll.
3) Improved backstab damage - most noticable at higher levels
4) Adjusted stealth so that the maximum allowed stealth has been increased
   to almost a 100% chance while you are moving *but* you now get a penalty 
   based on the number of users and monsters in the room.  In other words, if
   you have a high stealth and are sneaking around an area with no users or
   monsters then you will almost never fail.  As soon as you start sneaking
   through areas with users in them you will incur a penalty based on the
   number of users/monsters in the area.
5) Fixed all the quests for addon 4 so that your encumbrance doesn't make you
   miss out on messages or experience.
6) Reworked regeneration rates so that all the new areas should be getting
   populated with a better distribution of monsters.
7) Fixed an uninvite party bug.
   
                    +         Version 1.1q - 1/11/98          +

1) Fixed the bug that would sometimes not take chests away from you.
2) When you leave the dwarven arena, combat should always be broken now.
3) Fixed the item displayed when you drop so that it should always match
   the actual item your dropped or hid.
4) When you look at monsters you will no longer see a list of spells which
   are cast upon them unless the spell is supposed to give a descriptive
   message related to its effects.

                    +         Version 1.1p - 1/5/98           +

1)  Several small tweaks to things you won't notice
2)  Altered initiative so that monsters will now have a chance to
    get the first attack.
3)  Added set maxgossip and set maxauction (similar to maxpage but
    for gossip and auction messages)
4)  New features to improve game playability
5)  Leader monsters will now lead 'follower' monsters around
6)  Monsters can now be guarded by other monsters
7)  Increased monster regeneration in some areas. 
8)  Gambling (in addon #4)
9)  Treasure Chests - contents are not always the same.
10) Monsters can now cast general (non-combat) spells
11) Found and fixed another bug that would let you drag people
    through exits which they should not be going through.
12) Found and fixed another loophole which let you wear equipment
    which you should otherwise not be able to wear.
13) A trading shop has been established along Guild Street for users
    to trade in some of the newly level-restricted items.
14) New colours for different monster alignments: Depending on your
    alignment and the alignment of the monster, its name will appear
    in a specific colour.  Colours are: Magenta (light purple) is
    HOSTILE (will attack you), Blue is NEUTRAL (will not attack you
    but will attack back. Attacking neutral NPC's or townsfolk will
    be considered an evil act), and Grey is FRIENDLY (will not
    attack you, but will attack in self-defense).
15) Monsters can now have more than 1 duration spell cast on them
    at the same time.
16) Can no longer use a backstab to sneak in an unannounced spell

                    +         Version 1.1o - 11/9/97           +

1) Fixed a few places where a monster's attack would not display
   the 'drops to the ground' message.
2) Fixed a few follow bugs

                    +         Version 1.1n - 10/11/97          +

1) Fixed another bug that would let you know if you were hiding.
2) Fixed the wererat attack bug
3) Fixed the darkness hits spell bug
4) Fixed a number of drag-user-around bugs

                    +         Version 1.1m - 10/3/97          +

1) Monsters that would sometimes continue to attack you after you died should
   no longer do this.
2) Weapons that would sometimes continue to attack the target user after they
   died should no longer do this.
3) Fixed parsing of item targets so that it won't match similar items and keys
   when the item name is a longer match than the key name match
4) Added the forget command
5) Limited uses for keys now works
6) Fixed a follow bug that would allow you to follow anyone
7) The regeneration times for monsters have been randomized a little so merely
   knowing when the monster was killed and what its regen time is will not be
   enough to know when it will regenerate.

   
                    +         Version 1.1l - 8/10/97          +
                    
1) Fixed the problem with quest abilities being given to users too many times
   [including fixing existing users]
2) When limited items are sold to stores that don't actually keep them in
   inventory they will no longer be registered as being in the room (and
   hence will regenerate appropriately again).  Sysops:  Please run a fast-
   offline-recovery after installing 1.1l
3) Removed a few of the bugs that would let you equip weapons which you
   are not supposed to be able to (ie. due to evil status, etc.)
4) Due to the abuse of some of the bugs that have been fixed in this release,
   all the powers gained from the Ice Sorceress quest, the Dark Druid quest,
   the Champion of Blood quest, and the She-Dragon quest have been reset.
   ALL players will have to complete these quests again to reap their benefits.
   The Good, Neutral and Evil quests have NOT been affected and so will not
   have to be redone.
   Note that certain of the quests were completed in the past due to bugs and
   this will force those users who don't deserve the abilities to
   go and get them for real this time. :>
   
                    +         Version 1.1k - 7/26/97          +

1) Picklock will now display the same error regardless of the reason you fail.
2) Increased the chance of a monster attacking you when you're running away
   from them (leaving the room)
3) Fixed another bug where you could determine if you were hiding successfully
   or not
4) Experience percentage at high levels will now be more accurate.
5) Fixed calculations on a number of various attack protection abilities
                    
                    +         Version 1.1j - 6/21/97          +

1)  Monsters will now regenerate hit points properly (there were some
    cases where they would not generate at the correct rate before)
2)  Fixed the handling of several room commands so that they will work better
3)  Mystics can no longer get the auto-casting features of a weapon which
    they happen to be holding while punching, kicking, or jumpkicking.
4)  Fixed the hangup penalty so that it should catch some PvP situations
    which it did not before.
5)  Area-effect spells which give evil points should now also obey PvP
    level restrictions
6)  It should be harder to wear items which you're not supposed to be
    able to wear.
7)  You can not use a<enter> to re-attack a hidden user
8)  Area-effect attack spells should give attacked users a retaliation
    period attack now.
9)  If you are casting an auto-combat area-effect spell and new users
    walk into your room (or you walk into theirs) and attacking them
    should give you evil points then you will get evil points.  Note
    that this means that if you've already received evil points for
    initiating the spell in the first place and a new user walks into
    the room this means you get evil points again (the second time
    for attacking the new user)
10) Fixed another bug where you could determine if you were sneaking
    successfully or not
                    
                    +         Version 1.1i - 3/16/97          +

1) Fixed a minor bug created in the last release related to monster
   regeneration intervals
2) Some small cosmetic changes and misc. bug fixes

                    +         Version 1.1h - 2/8/97          +

1) Misc. minor bug fixes 
2) Fixed a few things that would let you have almost unlimited negative 
   hit points without dying
3) Fixed some problems with time delays between monster generation in
   the evenings

                    +         Version 1.1g - 1/4/97          +

1) Reset everyone's stats and force all users to train stats upon entry 
   into the game. 
2) When guards send you to the slums or when you use a special room command
   to move between rooms, anyone following you will stop following you.

                    +         Version 1.1f - 11/11/96        +

1)  Added a whole bunch of new features to work with future add-on quests
2)  Changed 'saint' status to something that can only be obtained through
    a quest.  'good' is as far as you can get by just waiting it out.
3)  Fixed the messages given when disarming traps, using up all item
    charges, eating, drinking, summoning monsters, and a few other places
4)  Fixed the way a number of spells worked on monsters so that more
    spells will work properly on monsters
5)  Mystics and Witchunters now have the ability to hit Magical creatures
6)  When evil people die, they will not appear in the Silvermere Hall of
    the Dead anymore
7)  Increased level of NPC interaction
8)  Non-damaging attack spells such as Confusion, Curse, Blind, Stun,
    Slow (though monsters will ALWAYS get 1 attack at least) will all now
    work on monsters. Try it. :)
9)  When stats are reset due to overly-high values, any spells cast on the
    user will also be terminated properly.
10) A bunch of little database patches to fix typos, etc.
                    
                    +         Version 1.1e - 8/25/96        +

1) Fixed a few minor bugs related to various exit types
2) Fixed the last portion of the bug which still let you move one room after
   being held by webbing or by being engulfed.
3) Area effect auto-combat spells now give the correct exp for kills
4) Fixed several minor bugs in various parts of the game
5) New experience tables (lower again)
                   
                    +         Version 1.1d - 5/19/96        +

1) Modified the legal system:
   - Attacks against GOOD and SAINT characters will result in 2 times
     the evil points earned
   - Attacks against LAWFUL characters will result in 3 times
     the evil points earned (see next point for lawful description)
   - SEEDY people are now fair game for attacks without earning
     evil points (Note that any characters which were SEEDY before
     this upgrade have been switched to NEUTRAL so they do not incur
     too many additional attacks)
   - If you have less than 0 Evil points (bottom half of neutral plus
     good plus saint) and you do any action to earn evil points then
     you will immediately go to 10 evil points regardless of your
     current level.
2) When creating a new character, if your old character had 0 or
   less EPs or it is your first character, you are given the option
   of choosing a 'lawful' way of life.  A character created in this
   fashion will permanently have their evil warnings enabled.
   Attacks against them will result in more evil points given
   (see above).  If your old character had more than 0 evil points
   then you will not be given this option.
3) Robbing will now give you evil points.  Every rob attempt will
   give 1/10th of the amount of an attack.  If you do not get caught
   then a * will not be shown by your name so that you can try to
   get away with it, but if the target thinks that you did it and
   try to attack you then they can without getting evil points.  If
   you get caught then you will get a * shown beside your name during
   the retaliation period. If, after robbing someone, you attack them
   during the retaliation period then you will get the full attack
   evil points and the retaliation period will be extended to the
   normal.  Unlike attacking, continued robbing attempts during
   the retaliation period will incur additional evil points and
   extend the retaliation period.
4) Various other little things
                    
                    +         Version 1.1c - 4/21/96       +

1) Wrote some code to get around the Cheersoft globals (user listing
   command) which cancels the channel polling routine rendering
   commands like topten non-functional until you exitted and re-entered
   MajorMUD.
                    
                    +         Version 1.1b - 4/13/96       +

1) Fixed the use of weapons like flametongue so that you will not get
   internal errors if you kill the monster with the weapon's additional
   ability.
                    
                    +         Version 1.1a - 4/6/96        +

1) When you die and the game cannot dispose of your items in the current
   or surrounding rooms, it will now try to dispose of them in the 
   rooms you previously walked through.
2) Other various little things again
                    
                    +         Version 1.1 - 4/1/96         +

1) Fixed the selling price on the really expensive items so that they
   do not end up being cheaper than they should be
2) Various other little changes 

                    +      Version 1.1 [beta] - 2/17/96    +

1) Fixed the bug which caused the random crashes in the 1/29/96 release
2) Characters who were hit with the massive stats bug will be reset to
   normal

                    +      Version 1.1 [beta] - 1/29/96    +

1) Fixed a bug where you got way too much when selling items to stores.  It
   will no longer take the stores markup into account when figuring out a
   price for an item, just your charm.
2) Fixed the bug where monsters and items would randomly disappear and
   reappear on some boards.

                    +      Version 1.1 [beta] - 1/14/96    +

1) If you get hit with a hold spell as you are moving out of a room, your
   move should be cancelled, leaving you in the original room.
2) A bunch of internal tweaks which will hopefully get rid of some of the
   random events which occur on some boards
3) Monsters should no longer cast the wrong area-effect spells
4) Hopefully found the problem which caused weird bank balances - it is
   due to a specific series of events which is hard to duplicate, but I'm
   pretty sure I got it this time.
5) That crazy casting of a different spell than the one you typed bug
   should not happen anymore
   

                    +      Version 1.1 [beta] - 1/1/96     +

1) Saints can no longer use evil-aligned items, spells, etc.
2) Numerous small fixes 
3) Items sold to shops will no longer disappear a few minutes after
   selling them.
4) Limited items sold to shops will be able to be purchased back.  Note that
   there may be some items in shops currently which may not be purchased.
   The game will slowly clean these up as people attempt to buy them.

                    +      Version 1.1 [beta] - 12/24/95   +

1)  If you die in the middle of a move, you will no longer complete the move;
    you will reappear in the appropriate location.
2)  After picklocking a 'keyed' door, you can now open and close it properly
3)  When hiding and sneaking, EACH attempt is a new roll to determine if you
    are hiding/sneaking.  This means that if you have a macro which does
    sneak^Msneak^Msneak^Msneak^M, what might actually happen is that you
    fail, succeed, succeed, fail and end up NOT SNEAKING.  This will result
    in people sneaking and hiding MUCH CLOSER to the actual percentage 
    chance that they are supposed to have and not always succeeding by
    using macros as above.
4)  Reduced the chance of monsters attacking you as you exit.
5)  Area-effect evil spells should give evil points appropriately
6)  In multi-room arenas, when you die, you keep the HP you had when you
    entered the first arena room, not just the one you die in.
7)  You must have at least 50% of your HP to enter a PVP arena
8)  Better!  Faster!  Lower Experience tables!
9)  You can now go into drag mode by merely typing DRAG <user> - you don't
    have to specify a direction immediately.  Once in drag mode, you just
    walk around normally and you will drag the target user.  Type DRAG by
    itself to turn off drag mode.   
10) Many profile options are now permanent between characters (ie. after
    a reroll, you do not have to reset things like your colour palette)
11) If your board is configured to force you to keep only a percentage
    of your EP's after a reroll, you can now only do that once per day -
    after that you will keep 100% of your evil points until the next day.
12) When you reroll now, you will keep some of your experience.  This will
    make it easier to switch races and classes without losing all of your
    time invested.  You can turn this off using the SET KEEP profile 
    toggle or SET KEEP ON/OFF.
13) Some area-effect spells can now be resisted
14) Mystics can invoke powers just by typing the power name now
15) Monsters should move randomly more often
16) Target matching when eating, drinking, or lighting should only match
    items of the correct type
17) You should no longer be able to attack your charmed monster to get 
    it to attack itself.
18) When you attack your charmed monster, as well as merely breaking the
    charm on the monster, the spell will now also be removed from it.
19) When picking a target for your attacks, if you have a charmed monster
    it will be picked last.
20) When attempting to sneak or hide, your charmed monster will not be
    considered as a disadvantage.
21) If you have more than one of a cursed item, and you are wearing one
    of them and you attempt to drop/hide/give away the other cursed item
    you will no longer be stopped.
22) When you light an item, or when it runs out of charges, both you and
    the room will be told of the event.
23) When inviting members to your gang, they no longer have to be in the
    same room as you.
24) If levels of difference to allow pvp combat is set, and a player 
    who is greater than that many levels lower than a fiend attacks the
    fiend, they will be allowed to attack, and the fiend can attack back
    while the evil timer is going on.
25) Profile options with only two options will now work as a toggle as well
26) Action commands will now terminate hiding or sneaking
27) Magical monsters may only be attacked with magical weapons of a 
    greater magical potency than the monster
28) Added the SET STYLE command to choose between technical and fantasy
    messages.  Currently this only affects the WHO/SCAN listing.
29) Added the GOSSIP command to send a message to everyone (The Block
    Entrance message profile option will disable these messages)
30) If you are invited to a gang while you are in one, you can now leave
    the first one and still keep the invitation to the second one.
31) New profile option: SET GANG to toggle the display of all gang members
    or only Online gang members for the BG command.
32) You can no longer look at items in stores which are not in stock
33) New command: APPRAISE <item> which will tell you how much you could
    sell an item for at the shop you are in.
34) Changed gossip so that it is now turned on/off with SET GOSSIP (Use
    PROFILE to view your current settings)
35) During any timed retailiation period, you may not enter either a 
    protected room or a colliseum/arena (PvP combat zone).  This is done
    to stop people from attacking and then running to safety so they can't
    be attacked back.
36) Saints and Good players get more EPs when they do evil actions.  You
    can no longer move towards 'good' until after level 3.  The best 
    reputation possible is just past saint - no matter how long you stay
    at saint, only a simple attack will bring you down out of saint.
37) Added an AUCTION command - same as gossip, but with its own flag 
    (ie. SET AUCTION to toggle auction messages on and off)
38) People with GOSSIP turned off will show with an 'x' in the scan/who list
39) If you successfully sneak out of a room monsters will no longer 
    follow you automatically
40) Area-effect attack spells will now work in auto-combat mode.  Note that
    with an area-effect auto-combat spell you get Evil Points for EACH cast
    of the spell (if applicable) and not only for the first cast.  Also
    note that you must manually BREAK combat to stop autocombat of an area
    effect spell (There are a few situations which will break auto-combat 
    of an area-spell, but merely killing someone/something is not one of 
    them)
41) Lowered the total number of evil points which may be obtained and 
    reduced the ranges of each evil level.  Made archons (templars, etc.)
    go after both villains and fiends now, with lightning only hitting 
    fiends.  Note that all players will be adjusted to the start of whatever
    evil level they are currently at under the new number ranges (ie. a
    villain under the old system will now be just before the start of a
    villain under the new system.)  Also, more EPs are now deducted each
    day for the per-usage time (instead of 1 extra per 2 hours, it is now
    1 extra per hour played).  The per-hour deductions are still only
    applied if you do NO evil actions.  They are also now limited to a max
    of 12 EPs deducted each day.
42) Added a purge command which will purge a spell from your spellbook.
    You must type the full command 'PURGE' to use this as there is no
    undo.  Once you have purged a spell, you must repurchase the scroll
    to relearn the spell.
43) More of the cheaper items will now disappear from rooms at cleanup.
44) For items which can be 'USE'd and 'worn' - you now must be wearing the
    item to be able to use it.
45) Added support for monsters to cast area-effect spells
46) Spells with multiple remove-spell ability values on them will work now.
47) Enhanced the logic to determine when you are allowed to sneak to allow
    it under more conditions than previously
48) Enhanced the use of keys on locks.  You may NO LONGER just walk through
    the door with a key.  You must USE KEY direction and then OPEN direction
    to unlock and open the door.
49) Added the commands SET STATLINE CUSTOM xxx and 
    SET STATLINE FULL CUSTOM xxx  (enter displays a short room desc).
    The xxx can be up to 60 characters long and may include spaces, etc.
    You may include the following variables in xxx:
      %h - current hit points
      %H - max hit points
      %m - current mana
      %M - max mana
      %c - current wealth on hand
      %x - current experience
      %X - experience to next level
      %r - resting flag " (Resting) " when resting
      %fn - set foreground colour (n = 0-7)
      %bn - set background colour (n = 0-7)
      %B - bold
      %N - normal
      %U - underline
      %L - blink
      %R - reverse
50) Added a SET GENDER <male/female> command.  Note that this MAY cost you
    up to 32000 gold or may not be allowed at all.  Your sysop can 
    determine how much it will
    cost and the only way to find out how much is to take the risk and do
    it.  You can't know what it will be like until you do it.
51) Appraise by itself will no longer display what other people type.
52) Area-effect auto-combat spells will now give evil points for initiating 
    combat in the same manner as auto-combat single-target spells.
53) Even more changes to stealth, attack, backstab, and other formulas
54) You should now only be able to wear 2 rings at a time
55) Level restrictions on area effect spells should not apply in the
    PVP arenas
56) Well over 1500 new rooms
57) Many new monsters
58) Hundreds of new spells and items
59) Balancing of all the classes
60) Players are able to train past level 20
61) Many other unlisted changes

                     +      Version 1.0z - 6/30/95       +

1)  Guards will now attack outlaws as well, but will stop once they hit
    0 hit points.
2)  Enhanced the display of spellcasting results
3)  Reduced the chance of templars coming after you.
4)  You will no longer get evil points for attacking a monster which is
    attacking you (ie. Templars, etc.)
5)  Remove curse spells will remove cursed items which you are wearing
6)  Added a confirmation prompt on disbanding a gang
7)  Mystics can train in their training hall to learn new powers which
    have been created for them at lower levels even when they don't have
    experience to train to the next level (assuming that there are new
    spells for them at lower levels which they do not already know)
8)  Level restrictions are not applied in practice arenas
9)  When leaving a practice arena, all combat related to you is broken
10) All spells cast on a user who dies in a practice arena should be removed
11) If you learn a neutral or good spell and subsequently turn evil, you
    will no longer be able to cast the good/neutral spell, even though it
    will remain in your spellbook
12) Added directed messages (ie. >dog hi there) [Only to visible people in
    the same room as you]
13) Added a recharge-at-cleanup ability which allows items to have a 
    certain number of charges per day.
14) Some cleanup related to area effect spells
15) Tons of little things
16) Note to sneakers: (sneaking) is no longer displayed in the look command
    and sneaking users are displayed when a statline full user presses enter
17) Spells cast on hidden users will no longer give numerous times the
    desired effect.
18) Spells which give evil points for casting will no longer continue to
    cast after a warning message is given to those with 'set warning on'
19) A user with 'hold-person' cast upon them can no longer follow in a party
20) The cases where you would cast one spell but end up casting a different
    spell should no longer occur.
21) New ability to remove a specific spell vs. the existing ability which
    removes all spells with a given ability.
22) Players with spells like 'turn' should be able to 'turn' items without
    the game attempting to cast their turn spell.
23) New ability to alter the rate at which you heal (including during rest)
24) Added a %chance that automatically used abilities/cast spells based on
    a weapon attack will be used (instead of the current 100% chance)
25) New ability to be able to negate the value of another ability for the
    duration of the negating spell.
26) Once you have progressed too far to the evil side, you may no longer do
    any evil actions until you have lost enough evil points.  
27) Increased support for traps
    
                     +      Version 1.0y - 3/24/95       +

1)  Played with guards and mercenaries a bit
2)  Matching for attacking will not include yourself (as well as matching
    for many other commands in which you are not a valid target)
3)  Matching when looking while in combat will attempt to match against
    whatever/whomever you are attacking before giving a list of options
4)  Numerous misc. little adjustments which I won't list because it would
    take me longer to list them than it did to change them
5)  Rewrote the method in which a new character's name is validated against
    existing characters and existing monsters so that it will not pause
    the entire BBS while checking.
6)  Started making some adjustments to reduce the unfair stealth BS attacks
7)  Started playing with colour palettes because some users want one set 
    of dim colours while others want the bright ones.  
    Try the SET PALETTE {0/1/2/3} command. Not much is implemented yet though.
    0 is a medium palette (new colours), 1 is a dim palette (new colours), 
    and 2 is bold palette (old colours), 3 is combo of 0, 2
    For any future comments regarding colours, PLEASE indicate the palette
    which you are using.
8)  Spells which are supposed to have a negative effect should work now
9)  Wearing a new item should no longer auto-remove a cursed one
10) Hot and cold defense against Monster's spells should work now
11) You should be able to use items again
12) You may no longer exit from a protected room (to avoid people running
    away to a protected room and then exitting)

                     +      Version 1.0x - 2/18/95       +
    
1)  Fixed the handling of cursed and major-cursed items
2)  Cleaned up some of the monster attack methods
3)  A lot of work on matching targets for all commands (ie players, monsters,
    items in inventory, items on the floor, spells).  I've attempted to
    catch duplicates and give a list of options instead of picking the first
    one to partially match.  This affects a LOT of the game, so please send
    detailed email to me (Lance@wcc) if you find weird cases due to not
    being able to pick your target properly for any command.
4)  Auto-cast spells linked to weapons should work more often now
5)  Added in some more room checking for the one user who managed to end up
    in a non-existant room.  MMUD will now place the user in the same room
    which you normally show up in after death if their room doesn't exist.
6)  Cleaned up the suicide and death code with respect to dropping items
7)  Some internal cleanup which will hopefully improve performance
8)  Fixed the cleanup routines so that items on the ground maintain the
    correct charge level
9)  Shockshield spells should now work properly.
10) Alpha release of the offline recovery utility
11) Gang leaders can now uninvite users who are not online (Their EXACT
    name must be used to do this)
12) Worked on the support for storing multiples of an item in a room which
    exceed the current item limit.  The total distinct items remains the
    same, but a room should support hundreds of a single item (if it is
    not an item which has a set number of charges).  This is another one of
    those dangerous changes, so if you find anything funny, please report
    it asap.  In addition, this will only affect new items dropped in a room
    so if there is currently a room with 12 torches in it, they will be
    treated as 12 separate items until someone picks them up and drops them
    again.
13) Fixed up bugs in shockshield and in matching player names (ie for drag)
14) Made the target matching for spells depend upon the legal targets for
    the given spell (ie a spell which can only be cast upon a player should 
    not attempt a match against an item or another monster)
15) Enhanced the area effect spells to support a wider variety of targetting
    (ie Some spells will only affect your party, some only those not in your
    party, etc.)
16) Spellcasters should not have to kill auto-combat twice now when they 
    kill a user/monster
17) The room is informed for more user events now

                     +      Version 1.0w - 1/28/95       +

1)  Re-enabled opening doors during combat (only opening)
2)  Double-checked the charge on items when entering the game to ensure 
    that old 'unlimited use' potions no longer have unlimited uses.
3)  Fixed the support for class-specific level titles so it works again.
4)  Fixed the reverse background so that it doesn't flash on some term progs
5)  Weapons which auto-cast spells will not repeat casting 25 times
6)  Switching attack types while in auto-combat is allowed now
7)  If you die while dragging a user, the user you are dragging should not
    show up in the reincarnation room with you.
8)  Monsters killed as a result of a spell, a lingering effect, or another
    monster will now give exp to all users in combat with it at the time of
    death.
9)  Misc. minor adjustments  
10) The levels difference to disable attacking now also applies to robbing
11) Evil combat spells will only give evil points when attacking good or
    lawfull good monsters
12) Dropping keys should properly update your weight now
13) Keys may be stolen now
14) Worked on support for a demo version

                     +      Version 1.0v - 1/9/95       +

1) Fixed a bug relating to dying with a light lit.  This could cause some
   of the problems related to items disappearing and to not being able
   to re-light other items.
2) Disabled opening, closing, and locking doors or gates during combat
3) Wrote a work-around so that the MajorJail /arrest command should no
   longer cause duplicate items in MajorMUD
4) If you get cutoff due to a change in class or an expired time per day
   then it should no longer treat it as though you hung up (and therefore
   it should not penalize you)
5) The share command includes yourself now.
6) You can no longer look at hidden items until they have been searched for
   and found.

                     +      Version 1.0u - 1/2/95       +

1) Minor changes - mostly fixed some sysop CNF options 

                     +      Version 1.0t - 1/2/95       +

1) Added a SHARE <amount> <currency> [optional: WITH ROOM/WITH PARTY]
   command to share some money by default with all the members of your 
   party and optionally with everyone in the room.
2) Added a WEALTH command.  It just displays your monetary situation.
3) You can no longer Search while it is dark.
4) Added a SET RESPONSE [BRIEF/VERBOSE] command so that you can turn
   off the 'you said ...' when you are talking

                     +      Version 1.0s - 1/1/95       +

1) Fixed the exp so that all people in combat with the monster share the
   exp again

                     +      Version 1.0r - 12/31/94     +

1)  Re-fixed the duplication bug with respect to training stats and waiting
    to switch classes before exiting.
2)  Mystics should be able to invoke KAI powers by merely typing the short
    name (as magic users can cast using the short name)
3)  Casting or Invoking may be done using the full spell/power name if
    specified as part of the full command (ie including 'cast' or 'invoke')
4)  Enabled all global commands while in the MMUD menu
5)  LEAVE GANG will leave your gang first instead of attempting to leave
    your party first.
6)  When you die with a light item lit, you no longer keep the light.
7)  The REMOVE command will now remove weapons as well (note that DISARM
    still works)
8)  When reading signs longer than a page, the screen should pause properly
9)  When a monster is killed, all users in autocombat with it should break
    combat immediately
10) You may no longer search while blind
11) CPs should be properly adjusted for all characters.  You may have to
    train stats twice to see a change (if you have an old character)
12) Fixed several areas where random numbers would never hit their maximum
13) Reduced the experience charts a bit more
14) Fixed the bug which caused most dispell magic activities to fail
    (ie cure blind, cure poison)
15) Other little things too small to note in detail

                     +      Version 1.0q - 12/29/94     +

1) Fixed the duplication bug related to using guest access accounts to
   play previously created characters.
2) Some colour changes.

                     +      Version 1.0p - 12/26/94     +

1) BSing, switching weapons, and re-attacking will no longer BS with 
   invalid (normally non-BS) weapons.
2) Added more information to the sysop release notes - sysops: Please 
   re-read these notes looking for new additions.
3) Light should not remain after death
4) Poison should no longer be cumulative and should be removed properly

                     +      Version 1.0o - 12/14/94     +

1) Spells which are supposed to ONLY work on animals will now work 
2) If you look <dir> or look <user> while hidden, it won't tell the room or
   the target user.  Also, it won't check for the monster to come into your
   room when you see it in the next room.
3) Credit scamming has been fixed so users get kicked out when they run out
   of credits.
4) Adjusted attacking with respect to sneaking, hiding, re-attacking
5) Resting is now broken more appropriately when you attempt certain commands
6) Monster's poison will now work properly (and poison immunity will work)
7) The BG command should now display all members of the gang, even on boards
   with over 500 users who play MMUD.

                     +      Version 1.0n - 12/02/94     +

1) Ensured that starting characters get their random hp portion at level 1
2) Reduced the chance that less agressive monsters will wander
3) Reworked the backstab formulas
4) Modified the way in which combat attacks are performed
5) Numerous little adjustments

                     +      Version 1.0m - 12/01/94     +

1) Some tweaks to the attack formulas and the spellcasting/mana formulas

                     +      Version 1.0l - 11/30/94     +

1) Fixed some of the spell abilities so that you won't do 300-400 damage
   when you have certain spells cast anymore
2) Mystic jumpkicks and kicks will continue past the first round instead
   of switching to normal attacks.
3) Adjusted the mana and spellcasting formulas

                     +      Version 1.0k - 11/24/94     +

1) Some general cleanup and some more performance adjustments
2) Charmed monsters should now attack other monsters (again) if you are
   attacking another monster (ie they will attack whatever you attack)
3) Adjusted the support for area spells to recognize some of the new
   types which had not previously been supported but where used for 
   some area spells.

                     +      Version 1.0j - 11/20/94     +

1) Some cleanup of the recovery logic done in 1.0i to handle systems with
   1000's of active monsters efficiently
2) When you attack GOOD and LAWFULL GOOD monsters you will get evil points
3) With time and good behaviour, it is now possible to go to GOOD

                     +      Version 1.0i - 11/19/94     +

1) Played around with the monster generation routines to ensure that
   quest monsters generate appropriately (as they used to) [Modified
   recovery mode to help fix any existing databases which are out of sync]
2) Modified recovery mode so that it will get rid of the duplicate
   specific monsters if they exist.
3) Adjusted combat formulas

                     +      Version 1.0h - 11/16/94     +

1) You may now drag and aid someone at 0 hp
2) Modified initialization to work in the background for the first few 
   minutes after the bbs starts up.  This will result in the initialization
   taking longer, but the board will be usable (with a high load) as soon
   as all the modules are initialized.  Added a new option, INITRATE which
   indicates the size of each chunk of work done during initialization.
3) Added a new sysop command: SYSOP INITIALIZE {rate} [RECOVER] which
   will restart the recovery cycle with the given rate and optionally
   in recovery mode.  This can be used to determine the optimal rate
   to set your CNF option to, or it can be used merely to ensure that
   all of your monster settings are correct.  NOTE that the RECOVER option
   should not normally be done with any users in the game (aside from the
   sysop entering the command - grin)
4) Added a new CNF option POLLRATE to adjust the rate of polling saves.
   Please read the sysop release note for more information regarding the
   POLLRATE and INITRATE options.
5) Shops will regenerate items properly when crossing midnight.
6) Some performance adjustments related to the way abilities are processed.
   The abilities adjusted are see-hidden, blind-user, paralze, 
   defence-modifier, protective-shield, alter-energy-usage, 
   alter-dr-by-percent, alter-damage-resistance, alter-critical-hit-chance
7) Fixed the profanity checking so that it works (sorry about that) and
   changed the default value to NO profanity checking.
8) Fixed the bug where magery-level 2 was not getting any more mana than
   magery-level 1.  This will be retroactively applied to existing chars.

                     +      Version 1.0g - 11/13/94     +

1) Some cleanup of changes made in 1.0f (such as makeing timed routines
   more accurate)
2) Removed the limit which stopped level 1 players from dropping copper

                     +      Version 1.0f - 11/11/94     +

1) Rewrote the recovery logic after a board crash so that it should run a 
   lot faster because it doesn't cycle through the active monsters more
   than once.  The recovery process should now take only a few minutes
   although if you find that your board crashes often and takes too 
   long to recover, then I would recommend increasing the size of your
   room buffers.  Renamed flag file to wccrecov.flg
2) Given this new discovery about rtkick routines, I realized that I
   am actually using the rtkick for a number of different things.  In fact,
   if there were 30 people in MUD and they are all in auto-combat and you
   have other modules on your system which use timer routines, then there 
   has always been the possibility of a freeze as we started experiencing 
   recently.  I have modified the attack routines so that this is no longer 
   the case.
3) grin - Ok, while I was at it, I wrote my own kick routine so that
   the game only uses one kick timer for the background activity
4) You can no longer cast spells during combat
5) Spell-shops will now tell you if you can use a given scroll

                     +      Version 1.0e - 11/09/94     +

1) Going on the theory that the BBS has an undocumented (or documented 
   somewhere I haven't looked) limit on the number of background timed
   events which may exist, I restructured the way some background events
   are done (specifically the restocking of stores).  This will greatly
   reduce the total number of background-timer events which are created.

                     +      Version 1.0d - 11/08/94     +

1) Even more error-checking added
2) Fixed a bug where I was calling memset instead of setmem and therefore
   potentially overwriting some memory
3) Added obsessive type-casting on numerous function calls
4) A few weeks ago I modified some low level routines to use what is known 
   as a 'volatile data area' of memory.  One of the requirements for 
   using this is not to use it during initialization.  I just found a 
   routine which is called by initialization which nests down and 
   eventually calls this low-level routine and uses this memory incorrectly.
   I've changed the startup so that instead of performing all of the
   initialization during the initialization routine, I perform it 1 second
   after the initialization is completed.  What this means is that until
   I decide to write it a different way, when your board starts up, your
   initialization will 'complete' and then almost immediately your disk
   will start working really hard (grin) and you will not be able to type.
   Basically, I've moved this initialization step outside of the 
   initialization routine.
5) Fixed the code which places items in rooms at startup so that it will
   work again

                     +      Version 1.0c - 11/07/94     +

1) More code-checks looking for possible infinite loops
2) Switched back to Borland C++ v3.1 (I've been using BC 4.0 since last
   January and I haven't had any problems, but it can't hurt to move
   back to BC 3.1 because that's what the BBS is built under)
3) Added checks so that all the recovery logic I put into version 1.0b
   will only occur if the board does not shutdown properly because the
   recovery was taking up to 1/2 hour to perform

                     +      Version 1.0b - 11/06/94     +

1) Experience command will display experience required for next level
2) Monsters who have items will no longer avoid you, will no longer 
   appear as 'shadowy figures', etc. (Small little bug, big effect)
3) Added some profanity level checking 
4) Added recovery logic at startup to handle situations where a
   specifically placed monster gets out of sync and therefore would
   not otherwise regenerate   
5) Added more recovery logic for all room-counts of monsters generated
   per room to ensure that it is correct upon startup.

                     +      Version 1.0a - 11/05/94     +

1) Changed some potential loops which could run for an extended period of
   time under some rare circumstances effectively freezing the board

                     +      Version 1.0  - 11/04/94     +

1) First Official non-Beta release

                     +      Version 0.5j - 11/02/94     +

1) Some minor cleanup (ie. read will let you read both signs and scrolls)

                     +      Version 0.5i - 11/01/94     +

1) Auto-use abilities on weapons will not be applied if target is already
   dead due to the regular attack
2) Removed level 1 restrictions to reflect the new starting location.
3) Adjusted the text displayed when casting area-effect spells to attempt
   to remove the duplication in messages.
4) Auto-cast spells applied via an item (used or attacked with) will no
   longer fail
5) Spells which should not work against non-living or animal type monsters
   will no longer work

                     +      Version 0.5h - 10/31/94     +

1) Fixed monsters so that they continue attacking longer after a minor
   bug in the last release which caused them to stop after the first round
2) Adjusted the HP calculations to fix old characters HP and to accommodate
   new methods for calculating random portions of HP/level
3) If you are in a party and resting, the resting will be cancelled when
   the leader moves.
4) Modified the top command so that systems with hundreds of users
   can increase the maximum number of top users to view without causing
   system pauses.
5) Fixed the give command so that it shouldn't give the wrong item as it
   was doing under certain circumstances
6) Non-combat spells which give you evil points will no longer be castable
   in protected rooms.
7) Modified spellcasting formula to even out the increase in the stat and
   to reflect the true value of the stat with lower basic stats
8) Fixed the telepath command

                     +      Version 0.5g - 10/30/94     +

1) Added a maximum level modifier for spells so lower level spells don't
   get ridiculously powerful
2) Cleaned up the messages displayed to the target when a spell is cast
3) Modified the starting location for new players
4) Reduced the overhead of some of the frequently executed background events
5) Added a rest command which will increase your HP regeneration

                     +      Version 0.5f - 10/30/94     +

1)  Some more preventative code cleanup
2)  Include experience in topten list
3)  If you walk away from a party, you will automatically leave it
4)  Spells doing reverse damage will work again
5)  Increased encumbrance percentages before going heavy
6)  Enhanced documentation of SYSOP commands
7)  Added the (I)nformation option to the main menu
8)  Sorted the display of your spell list by level order
9)  Enhanced the training to display some more information
10) Modified exp/level and hp/level to also be affected by your race.

                     +      Version 0.5e - 10/28/94     +

1) More code cleanup.

                     +      Version 0.5d - 10/27/94     +

1) Fixed monster wandering so they don't run away from you all the time
2) When the last person leaves your party, you should return to no rank
3) Worked on charmed monsters so they stay charmed longer
4) Added "BUY CURING" to the temple to cure from poison
5) Made some changes to the way spell messages are displayed to provide
   greater flexibility
6) Fixed the bug where new characters who rerolled ended up majorly evil
7) When an attacker takes damage from a damaging shield, they will get a
   message telling them about it now.
8) Weapons may now have two sets of abilites - one which may be activated
   upon a successful attack and one which can be activated by using the
   weapon.

                     +      Version 0.5c - 10/26/94     +

1) Worked on keeping track of limited items so that they don't disappear
   when they shouldn't disappear
2) Fixed some other potential problems with memory
3) Fixed the cure-poison bug which hung up on you :)

                     +      Version 0.5b - 10/24/94     +

1) Fixed the bug in the limited-reindex related to deleting records
2) Fixed the background saving to ensure modified items are saved
3) Modified the delete user account routine so that when a bbs user
   is deleted, all of the MMUD related stuff will be deleted as well.

                     +      Version 0.5a - 10/24/94     +

1) Some minor spell cleanup re messages given
2) Adjusted the way limited items are treated when a user hangs up
3) Wrote a limited-items re-indexing routine to ensure that all limited
   items are accounted for properly in case of other bugs losing them :)
4) Wrote a routine to walk through all of the MajorMUD users and confirm
   that the BBS user accounts still exist.
5) Fixed the bug which caused characters to not save after training stats

                     +      Version 0.4z - 10/24/94     +

1) Fixed specific shops to sell items of any level if specified in shop
2) Fixed the online update to add data properly in addition to changing

                     +      Version 0.4y - 10/23/94     +

1) Enhanced the use of poison to have both permanent poison and duration 
   poison (both of which can be cured with cure poison and are immune with
   immune poison)
2) In addition to being able to "use <weapon> <target>", added the ability 
   to have a weapon automatically perform special abilities upon 
   successfull attacks with the weapon
3) Enhanced the support for one-time-cast spells which are auto-activated 
   when an item is used.
4) Tons of work on abilities (don't ask which ones... You'll see them as
   new spells are created)

                     +      Version 0.4x - 10/22/94     +

1) Monster spellcasting supports monster duration/level spell modifiers
2) Provided support for a variety of messages when an item disappears
   from your inventory due to running out of charges
3) Cleaned up more abilities
4) Added support for an area-specific room in which you will be reincarnated
5) You can no longer cast spells while unconscious

                     +      Version 0.4w - 10/22/94     +

1) Added a SAVEKEY sysop option to give sysops the option of allowing
   guest users to play the game without saving their characters. 
*****   NOTE: SYSOPS:  ENSURE THIS KEY IS SET PROPERLY FOR YOUR SYSTEM
2) Moved level99 options from the WCCMMUD.MSG file into WCCTEXT.MSG to
   support the gradual moving of hard-coded text into a message file.
3) Added a MAILUSER sysop option to send copies of all MMUD generated 
   mail to a local user as defined by the MAILUSER option.
4) Fixed a few more of the methods to find hidden players illegally

                     +      Version 0.4v - 10/21/94     +

1) Fixed use of multi-valued spells (multi-ability spells)
2) Added resistance abilities against hot, cold, stone, and lightning spells
3) Restrict monster spell casting per round to become even with users
4) Added support for spells to shatter weapons (and quality weapons which
   cannot be shatterred)
5) You can no longer find hidden people by casting a spell on them
6) You can no longer find hidden people by inviting them 
7) Added a SYSOP DISBAND gang command
8) Added and updated even more abilities

                     +      Version 0.4u - 10/20/94     +

1) Fixed the restocking logic in shops
2) Added and Updated some abilities

                     +      Version 0.4t - 10/16/94     +

1) Continued work on online database update utility
2) Fixed problem with restocking some items in limited-quantity stores
3) Added more logic to keep track of the location of limited items
4) Modified the clearing evil points routine (for boards who are resetting)
   so that it works as a polling routine (i.e. low system overhead)

                     +      Version 0.4s - 10/12/94     +

1) Fixed that d#$ned casting attack spells in protected rooms again :(
2) Fixed the bug where you could initiate combat, follow into a protected
   room, and then chase after your target when they leave and get a bunch
   of attacks grouped together.
3) Fixed the messages displayed when an area effect spell is cast.
4) Added support for placed items in rooms which will regenerate when
   the first item generated disappears
5) If a spell has a short name, you must type it completely to cast it - 
   you may no longer type portions of the long spell name.
6) Started adding support for users to gain abilities attached to their
   characters as they progress through the game
7) Added support for fixed ability values on a spell in addition to the
   variable ones (for spells with multiple abilities - grin)

                     +      Version 0.4r - 9/25/94      +

1) First set of complete formula rewrites

                     +      Version 0.4q - 9/25/94      +

1) Added a QUIT command in addition to the regular X to leave the game
2) If a help topic is longer than a screen, it should pause now
3) Fixed the party command so that it displays the party members :)
4) Failed bashes against doors should only tell you once
5) Hopefully fixed the bug where some items would randomly change to other
   items when they were dropped or picked up.
6) Worked on adding more abilities for use in creating spells, etc.
7) Disabled casting spells in protected rooms again
8) First draft of online update utility for database patches (sysops: please
   heed the warning off the sysop-menu and do not use this yet - grin)
9) Enabled searching when YOU are not in auto-combat (or auto-cast)

                     +      Version 0.4p - 9/17/94      +

1) Added some sysop commands to help those boards who are resetting to
   clear all of the stored evil points.
2) Enhanced the logic which determines when autocombat breaks so that
   autocombat will stay on slightly longer when chasing someone.  Also
   discovered that auto-casting would break much too early and fixed that.
3) Messages to the room when you drop or pickup something are low priority

                     +      Version 0.4o - 9/14/94      +

1)  Fixed some minor bugs in a few of the new 0.4n changes
2)  You must search for and find a hidden item prior to being able to get it.
3)  Disabled the train stats command if any of your stats are altered (i.e.
    if you currently have a bard spell cast upon you)
4)  Cleaned up the messages given when bashing open doors and normal exits
5)  Made the who command display in a random order 
6)  If you are following someone who goes through an exit which you can not
    go through, you will stop following them.
7)  Added a check to stop you from making a bank deposit which would roll 
    your account back to 0
8)  You may now only train stats in your training room
9)  Added more error checking/reporting related to all database access to
    attempt to either stop or catch the bug which has caused 2 unresolved
    database errors so far.
10) When a monster kills a user, it should tell the correct room now
11) If a mystic attacks with no weapon, it will be treated as a punch

                     +      Version 0.4n - 9/11/94      +

1)  Disabled the GUARD command
2)  Fixed the bug that caused movement to be slower the faster you typed :)
    (ie. movement is FASTER now)
3)  Cut the pause in half when typing SNEAK
4)  Added a SET SPEECH command which toggles fast and slow talking
5)  Major rework on monster attacking to provide support for multiple
    attack types for each monster (including spellcasting for monsters).
6)  Fixed some monster regeneration bugs which caused some monsters to
    stop regenerating completely.
7)  Hopefully fixed the looking through open doors bug
8)  Added a GET <currency> command which will pick up all of the VISIBLE
    specified currency in the room.  eg. GET GOLD will get all of the
    visible gold.
9)  Classes which should not have the following abilities will no longer
    get them at higher levels: Stealth, Dodge, Thievery, Find Traps,
    Picklocks, Tracking
10) When you attempt to follow someone who has not invited you, it will
    no longer tell the person that you made the attempt.
11) When a user falls to the ground unconscious, it should tell the room now
12) If there is no exit in a particular direction, you will not get a 
    delay when attempting to move in that direction.  If there is an exit
    which you may not go through, then you will still get a pause (ie.
    a locked door will still pause because it is the time you spent
    attempting to open it)
13) If you attempt to wear an item on a body location on which you are
    already wearing an item, the first item will be automatically removed.
    Note that this will not auto-disarm a two-handed weapon if you attempt
    to wear an off-hand item such as a shield.
14) You may now cast a spell without typing 'cast' before the spell name.
    Note that you can still use 'cast', and if you type cast by itself it
    will still go into re-casting mode as before.
15) Added support for a short alternative casting name for each spell 
16) Hopefully fixed the drag bug related to dying while being dragged
17) Added support for monster sex (he/she/it)
18) Added support for spells to last longer as the caster's level increases
19) Added support for more variety in titles on a per class per level basis
    plus added support for different male/female titles
20) Added support for help at the Race and Class prompts when creating a
    new character (using help or ?)
21) Added support for monsters and npcs to randomly say things 
22) Added a CNF configurable option for the percentage of evil points which
    are retained after a final death.

                     +      Version 0.4m - 8/21/94      +

1) Added a midrank command.
2) Added a SET ENTRANCES <On/Off> command to disable the global entrance
   and exit messages whenever someone enters or exits the game.
3) Whenever you enter the game, your weight carried is adjusted to ensure 
   that you have a resolution in case there are future weight bugs.
4) When you die, and all of your items/keys drop to the ground, if the 
   room is full, it will attempt to hide the item, and then to drop it in
   an adjacent room.

                     +      Version 0.4l - 8/14/94      +

1) Modified the handling of global commands so that the FastPace globals
   will work with the game again.
2) Worked on some of the background processing to try to reduce system load

                     +      Version 0.4k - 8/8/94      +

1) Automatically reset CPs and Stats if user has taken advantage of a bug
   which ended up raising their stats and giving them negative CP

                     +      Version 0.4j - 8/7/94      +

1) Started work on the messaging level profile option 
   (SET MESSAGE (High/Medium/Low) -- Only Low currently makes a difference)
2) When you give money to another user, both users are auto-saved
3) Started adding logic to disallow specific global commands in the game

                     +      Version 0.4i - 8/1/94      +

1) If another module assumes that a message file is open, MajorMUD will
   now restore the message file state so that the other modules error will
   no longer appear as a problem with MajorMUD.
2) Fixed the gang bugs when creating or disbanding
3) Started to add support for limiting the number of a particular item in
   the game (will enable more regenerative monsters in the future)
4) When you die, if you have money in the bank, you will not be given more.
5) Started implementing the specific counts of items in stores

                     +      Version 0.4h - 7/28/94     +

1) When a party leader types a direction instead of an action command,
   the entire party will no longer move through the action exit.
2) Worked on support for spells to increase your maximum allowable weight
3) Added a FORGIVE user command which will remove the evil points gained
   by the person you are forgiving if they recently attacked you.
4) Enhanced the way monsters follow users so that they will not necessarily
   follow a user forever.
5) Reduced the chance of a monster getting an 'instant' attack when you
   enter a room.

                     +      Version 0.4g - 7/27/94     +

1) More work on monster generation
2) Added a SET TELEPATH ON/OFF command to disable receipt of telepaths
3) Ensured that the effects of spells are properly removed when you die
4) Fixed the bankbook command when not in a bank
5) Pressing <ENTER> with a full statline should not display hidden people
6) Worked on fixing the support for potions

                     +      Version 0.4f - 7/24/94     +

1) Different debugging stuff added :)

                     +      Version 0.4e - 7/18/94     +

1) More work on exit types
2) More work on monster generation and monster areas
3) You can now 'USE KEY <dir>' to unlock a keyed door
4) TOPTEN will now only work for up to 10 users, top gang as well
5) Monsters will no longer follow sneaking users
6) Cleaned up the type ahead buffers so the keystrokes don't echo until
   they are actually being entered.
7) Increased evil points gained when backstabbing.
8) If you are not allowed to use or equip an item, you will still be allowed
   to pick it up and sell it.

                     +      Version 0.4d - 7/13/94     +

1) Took out some debugging stuff

                     +      Version 0.4c - 7/13/94     +

1) More modifications to abilities for spells, etc.
2) Modified the way party members follow their leader
3) Modified the entry of commands to make it easier to script the game
4) Some minor adjustments

                     +      Version 0.4b - 7/08/94     +

1) When you LOOK <dir>, you will now see if a monster comes into your room
2) You can no longer re-initiate auto-combat using (A) or (C) if your 
   previous target is not in the same room as you.
3) Casting a spell during the same round will no longer use up mana when
   it tells you that you've already cast a spell.
4) Inviting someone to your gang multiple times will not increase the
   number of members incorrectly anymore.
5) Lanterns won't work forever anymore - Also, you must 'LIGHT' light items
6) Added a SET WARNING <on/off> command which will warn you if you are
   about to do something which will give you evil points and will stop
   you from doing it.  For now, you must turn warnings OFF to be able to
   perform evil acts.  (Note that there is still a chance that you might
   not get told {grin} - You can't _always_ be warned.)
7) Major rework in the handling of spells and abilities.

                     +      Version 0.4a - 7/03/94     +

1) Assorted small changes (eg. you can now uninvite someone before they
   follow you)
2) For sysops: Added NOPLAYKY in CNF options
3) For sysops: Added PUNHUP in CNF options - level of punishment for 
   dropping carrier while in the game.
4) First draft of room-specific command support.
5) Enhanced monster generation logic

                     +      Version 0.3o - 6/25/94     +

1) You may now hangup in the MUD Menu without being treated as though you
   hung up while in the game.
2) Fixed the TOP GANG command so that it will order based on Gang Experience
   Unfortunately, this was due to an incorrectly defined database, so all
   the gangs had to be deleted.  [sorry]
3) It will now tell you that you were penalized when you login again after
   hanging up or disconnecting while playing the game.
4) You will no longer 'dodge' an attack when you are unconscious.
5) You can no longer determine what a user doesn't have by attempting to rob.
6) If you BS when you're not hidden/sneaking, it will appear as though you
   are backstabbing, but will act as a normal attack.
7) You may no longer GIVE to hidden users.
8) Users who you may attack without getting evil points now show with a *

                     +      Version 0.3n - 6/25/94     +

1) Modified backstab formulas.
2) Gangs will now accumulate experience based on experience earned by 
   members while they are in the gang.
3) Modified random monster follow logic
4) Monsters will now resist spells in the same manner as users.

                     +      Version 0.3m - 6/24/94     +

1)  Fixed the Bard songs which affect your stats so that you may not cast
    them multiple times before the first one wears off 
    [Note to WCC users: I'm shocked that you didn't find this one!]
2)  Added an appropriate delay when robbing. Also disabled all robbing 
    in protected rooms
3)  LOOK <dir> will now give the same detail as moving (re: brief/verbose)
4)  Each ring may only be worn once (and you can only wear 2)
5)  Added the command LEAVE GANG to leave your gang.
6)  Keys will now drop when you die/suicide
7)  Modified the defence value for monsters when being backstabbed.
8)  Potentially fixed the random bug where a monster would appear to gain an
    extraordinary amount of health (it related to casting some spells)
9)  Increased the penalties for dropping carrier (hanging up)
10) Modified monster generation a bit.
11) Fixed the jumpkick bug which would freeze the board.  [Tech note for 
    those who care: a bug in a formula caused it to attempt a random number
    greater than 3, but less than 2 - not possible {grin}]

                     +      Version 0.3l - 6/13/94     +

1) Fixed the bug reported by Gameland (thank you) which caused a GP during
   background processing under certain conditions.  [Technical point for 
   those who a) care and b) have the source code: usrnum was not being set
   appropriately during the timed events and a call to hasmkey required
   this value to be set appropriately... therefore GP... sometimes...]
2) hehe... even better... This was a performance problem.  Eliminated the
   unnecessary call to check for the key which was causing the crash above.
3) Added an UNINVITE MEMBER <user name> which will remove a user from your
   gang.  Also, modified so that the only other way to get out of the gang
   is to reroll, or die your last life.

                     +      Version 0.3k - 6/12/94     +

1) Adjusted the monster generation logic to eliminate large concentrations 
   of monsters in one location
2) Changed the way in which 'time in the game' is calculated yet once more.
   This time, it will not be succeptible to the varying granularity of the
   time between saving users.  Unfortunately, the first day you install this
   release, your time reported in the game will be inaccurate.
3) The BG command will now properly display if the leader is in the game.

                     +      Version 0.3j - 6/11/94     +

1) Hopefully fixed the <invalid pointer> errors in monster messages
2) Added a FORCE command which is identical to the BASH command
3) Fixed the board freezing problem when you attempt to give > 32767 of any
   currency to another user :)
4) Fixed the toll exits so that they will not crash the board :)
5) Started to add support for the gang commands:
      CREATE GANG <gang name>    -- Requires 100000 experience
      INVITE MEMBER <user name>  -- Only the gang leader can invite members
      BROADGANG _or_ BG [<text>] -- By itself lists gang members
      TOPTEN GANGS _or_ TOP <n> GANGS
      DISBAND GANG               -- Only the gang leader can disband the gang
        -- Note that after a gang is disbanded, the name may not be used
           until the day after all ex gang members have entered the game

                     +      Version 0.3i - 6/9/94      +

1) Disabled sneaking and hiding when you are in a room with a monster who
   is attacking you (i.e. all non-Lawfull Good monsters)
2) Hopefully fixed the PARTY command so that if someone drops carrier, they
   are appropriately removed from the party
3) If you attempt to backstab when you may not legally backstab (i.e. you 
   have a two-handed weapon, or you are not sneaking or hiding) then you will
   attack as if it was a normal attack.
4) Disallowed initiating combat with monsters in protected rooms.
5) Toll exits will now accept the toll no matter what currency you have on
   you (assuming you have enough value to cover the toll)
6) When a light source disappears from your inventory, the weight will now
   be removed.
7) You can now attack sneaking players

                     +      Version 0.3h - 6/6/94      +

1) Fixed the nightly reporting so that it should report the minutes in the
   game correctly (previously, would report as though users were saved 
   once a minute and would not reflect saving once every 2 or 3 minutes)
2) The MAP command will no longer break up a party
3) If you buy something which is too heavy for you, it will no longer charge
4) You may now wear more than one ring at a time
5) Hunger and thirst are no longer displayed (until we actually use hunger/
   thirst, if we decide to ever use them)
6) Characters created prior to version 0.3f had a chance at not being able
   to light anything.  This has been fixed now.
7) Added support for items limited to specific classes and/or races; also
   added support to disallow anit-magic classes from carrying magical items
8) When casting combat spells, you will now initiate auto-casting even if
   you aren't currently ready to cast the spell (you will then cast as soon
   as you are ready)

                     +      Version 0.3g - 6/5/94      +

1) Fixed the cleanup routines so that they should not stop the system from
   restarting  (I was able to reproduce the same symptoms as reported at 
   cleanup with a re-installed 'out-of-the-box' version of the BBS.  
   MajorMUD will now cleanup properly on a base version [6.12])
2) The Arena will now have more monsters in it
3) Fixed the 'CAST' command with no target (will restart combat with the
   last target you were casting at if you have not 'attacked' since the
   last cast)
4) Fixed room illumination spells so that they will work properly now
5) Until a better solution can be implemented, level 1 users may no longer
   drop, hide, or give away anything.  When they suicide or are killed, 
   none of their possessions will drop to the ground.  Level 1 users may 
   also not be robbed.

                     +      Version 0.3f - 6/4/94      +

1)  Modified topten to take a parameter to display more users (topten 50)
2)  Starting at level 2, buying and selling in stores will convert your
    currency to the largest denominations
3)  When Backstabbing a monster it will say 'Attempting to Backstab' now
4)  The page count limit now also applies to telepaths (i.e. pages and
    telepaths combined) [You cannot block telepaths entirely though]
5)  Wandering guards will now attack evil users
6)  If a monster attacked you recently, then you may not hide or sneak
7)  Fixed the Feedback command to send mail from "SYSOP".  This assumes that
    the sysop account has the appropriate key to send MHS mail.
8)  Modified the name matching code to support multiple words more accurately
    (i.e. You can now "read scroll of ethereal shield")
9)  Made changes to the way in which light items are handled (now you can 
    light them and then remove them multiple times)
10) Ensured that the player's character is saved when they run out of credits
11) Changed the default statline for new users to `full' instead of just `on'

                     +      Version 0.3e - 6/3/94      +

1) Fixed the accounting error where the time in the game was not recorded
   properly (and therefore free time was not working properly)

                     +      Version 0.3d - 6/2/94      +
                     +  First Official Public Release  +

1) Fixed that bug I introduced in the last version when reading scrolls
2) Modified the mystic attacks

                     +      Version 0.3c - 6/1/94      +

1) More of the same as the last 2 versions {grin}
2) Can no longer cast multiple duration spells with similar effects on a user
3) Fixed the bug where sometimes you would read a new scroll and it would
   tell you that you have already got the spell.
4) Added validation on player names
5) When you are killed in a colliseum, you will only regain the amount of hp
   which you had when you entered the colliseum.

                         +      Version 0.3b      +

1) Many modifications to support distribution to other BBS's

                         +      Version 0.3a      +

1) Added commands to support talking with NPCs and other monsters
2) Internal restructuring to enable distribution to other BBS's
3) Looking will now tell you if someone is sneaking
4) Monsters now have a random chance of dropping items
5) Further enhancements to the exits - more descriptions, more variety
6) You may no longer look at hidden users
7) Modified the Backstab formulas

                         +      Version 0.2o      +

1) Added a SEARCH <direction> command to find some hidden doors
2) Updated a number of statistics formulas

                         +      Version 0.2n      +

1) More support for locked doors, gates, hidden exits, and remote actions.
2) Enhanced timed commands
3) Modified exitting so that you can type BREAK during your meditation to
   stop meditation.

                         +      Version 0.2m      +

1) Enhanced the support for doors, gates, and hidden exits.
2) Fixed some bugs with critical hits

                         +      Version 0.2l      +

1) Enhanced critical hits
2) Modified Sneak
3) Some visual changes (colours, etc.)

                         +      Version 0.2k      +

1) Fixed the bug where certain people could crash the board with feedback :)
2) Fixed the FRONTRANK command

                         +      Version 0.2j      +

1) Added the concept of a 'protected' room - no PVP combat at all
2) Added more evil effects
3) Added a FEEDBACK command which will email me with a line of comments
   (@WCC for remote BBS').  [Also, internal error reporting via EMail]
4) Modified the speed of punching, kicking, jumpkicking
5) Introduced the concept of a 'critical hit' (Must either TRAIN or REROLL
   to be able to get the correct chance at a critical hit.)
6) Enhanced the frontrank/backrank support in combat
     
                         +      Version 0.2i      +

1) Added a DISMISS GUARD command which will release your guard.
2) Fixed the random bug which would cause monsters to 'not die'
3) Modified the LOOK command so that you can look at an item in a store
   before you buy it.
4) Started adding the effects for being evil.
5) Modified the effects of charm in stores.

                         +      Version 0.2h      +

1) Death occurs at 0 hp in any colliseum room (i.e. practice arena)
2) Fixed up light levels (hopefully) {grin}
3) Added new exit types (doesn't concern users until the appropriate
   quests are written; just Cat, Rasputin, and Orfeo)

                         +      Version 0.2g      +

1) Some performance improvements (not user-perceivable when in the game, 
   just at the board level)
2) Fixed the bug where you couldn't ready some weapons together.

                         +      Version 0.2f      +

1) First release of Evil System.

                         +      Version 0.2e      +

1) Fixed attacking sneaking/hidden users
2) When an items uses are gone (i.e. a scroll has been read) and it 
   disappears, the weight is now deducted from your weight carried.
3) Poison should no longer affect you after you die (or suicide)
4) Modified name matching logic when buying items in a store
5) Fixed the bug where certain situations would cause a suicide command
   to effectively reroll - also, breaking combat should not tell you that 
   you are 'no longer dragging' if you were not originally dragging.
6) When you attempt to read a scroll which does nothing for you, it
   should not disappear from your inventory.
7) Attack or Cast on a line by itself will attempt to reinitiate auto-combat
   or auto-casting with the last user/monste with which you were in combat
   with.
8) Modified auto-combat to stop properly when attacking monsters.

                         +      Version 0.2d      +

1) Fixed the robbing bug where your currency goes to extremes
2) Modified the generation of Lair monsters

                         +      Version 0.2c      +

1) Fixed mana so you don't get more than your maximum
2) You may no longer rob someone of something worn or a readied weapon.
3) You may no longer steal money from someone by giving them money.

                         +      Version 0.2b      +

1) New combat system
2) Modified method/rate of hp and mana regeneration
3) Only one person can drag another user at a time
4) Enhanced support of the USE/READ/DRINK/EAT commands to support healing
   potions, etc.
5) First release of the ROB command (only from users currently)
6) Added a receive items flag which will stop other players from giving 
   you items or currency.  Command is: SET RECEIVE <on/off> to turn it
   on or off.  PROFILE to view the current status.

                         +      Version 0.1w      +

1) Blah... not much

                         +      Version 0.1v      +

1) Whisper works now
2) Modified initiation of combat to interrupt your typing.  Use the commands
   SET INTERRUPT {ON/OFF}   and   PROFILE
3) Added a 'blind follow' mode which will not display room descriptions 
   to following users.  Use the commands
   SET FOLLOW {BLIND/NORMAL}   and PROFILE
4) First release of Bard spells (alter stats style spells)

                         +      Version 0.1u      +

1) First release of Scrolls
2) Fixed the train stats/ctrl-o bug
3) Fixed Bank command errors

                         +      Version 0.1t      +

1) A few more colour changes
2) A lot of spell changes - most noticably descriptive changes, so please
   report any peculiarities (I expect a number as this is STILL not done)

                         +      Version 0.1s      +

1) A few colour changes
2) A few adjustments to sneak and hide
3) A few adjustments to death and suicide

                         +      Version 0.1r      +

1) Fixed the bug where some users were crashing the BBS when they trained
2) Modified the delays during sneaking and hiding

                         +      Version 0.1q      +

1) First release of Kai powers
2) Nightly Cleanup routine will sweep items and currency out of sight

                         +      Version 0.1p      +

1) Modified the way in which certain items can give you special abilities
2) Ensured that spells stop affecting you after you die.
3) Modified Backstab so that 2-handed weapons may not be used to backstab
4) Restrict Punches to classes explicitly with the Punch ability

                         +      Version 0.1o      +

1) A number of little things
2) Modified the price of items to use your charm when calculating a price
3) Added error checks on allowable names

                         +      Version 0.1n      +

1) Added a BASH <direction> command which will let you bash through
   locked doors.
2) Classes restricted to one-handed weapons may not wear off-hand armour
   (i.e. Shields)
3) Increased the chance of aggressive monsters following you.
4) Modified the spells/items which each user is allowed to purchase in
   each store.

                         +      Version 0.1m      +

1) Made numerous error-checking modifications in the hopes of eliminating
   crashes.  Please note that we will be resetting the game to clear any
   potentially corrupt data.  This will happen sometime this weekend 
   (probably Sunday the 23rd early am).  Please don't ask for any 
   character modifications -- we will not be doing any because numerous
   other changes have affected the way in which EXP is earned, and the
   amounts per level, etc. In other words, Please do NOT ask.
2) Broadcast by itself will tell you who is in your broadcast group.  Also,
   the letters - or ' will start a broadcast (but ' will not override the
   global ' unless your ;cc is set to 0)
3) Modified the Party command to display invited users as 'invited'
4) Toned down the rate at which monsters will enter rooms around you.

                         +      Version 0.1l      +

1) Fixed the automatic timed saves of the characters
2) Fixed some sneak/drag bugs (you never stopped)
3) Added the command SET MAXPAGES {n} which will allow you to configure
   the number of pages which you can receive in a 3 second period.  Use
   the PROFILE command to see your current setting.  For users suffering
   from 'macro paging', we suggest setting this value to 1.

                         +      Version 0.1k      +

1) Modified Sneaking and Hiding rules (Modified Backstab)
2) Fixed training so that you get back your lives/level
3) Reduced the experience gained from killing users
4) Fixed 'macro-paging' by limiting the number of pages you can receive
   in a row.  (i.e. you can only recieve 1 page every 3 seconds)

                         +      Version 0.1j      +

1) Fixed the Cure-Poison spell ability such that (a) It doesn't tell you
   that you are poisoned and (b) You don't continually increase in HP.
2) Fixed looking through locked doors.
3) Disabled combat style spells in shops.
4) Modified the allowable armour so that classes only allowed up to 
   chainmail may no longer use Scalemail (and allowed Scalemail users to
   use Chainmail)
5) Modified combat style spells so that you cannot attack yourself 
6) If you have 2 or more of an item and 1 is readied or worn and you drop, 
   stash, or hide that item, you will drop, stash, or hide the one you don't 
   have readied or worn.
7) Modified death so that you lose all of your bank accounts.  (Only on
   Reroll, Suicide NOW, and final death)
8) Increased delay time prior to commencing attacks against level 1 users
   (i.e. Level 1 users get more time to run away)
9) Modified the chance to hit formula - You 'should' hit more often now.

                         +      Version 0.1i      +

1) Fixed the bug introduced in 0.1h re: HP 
     -- Sorry about that one, I put the wrong formula in! :)
2) Fixed the random text which appeared when you died and ran out of
   lives. (Please tell me if this happens again, thanks)

                         +      Version 0.1h      +

1) Monster's will no longer see you if you are hidden
2) Modified the calculation of HP and HP earned per level
3) Fixed the HELP EXPERIENCE command to display appropriately
4) Modified the attack values to increase chance of hitting as
   levels increase

                         +      Version 0.1g      +

1) Made more modifications to attack speed
2) Fixed encumbrance when you suicide to reset
3) Made Shops and Hotel Rooms safe from attacks
4) Added an editted flag to warn users of editted players (i.e. sysops)
5) Fixed BUY or SELL in stores to work properly when you don't specify
   the item/spell you wish to buy
6) In addition to typing 'sneak east', you can now type 'sneak' and 
   then type 'east' to sneak east.
7) Modified the LEAVE command to first leave your Party, and then to
   leave your broadcast group.
8) Added checks to ask the user to enter their suicide password.  If they
   press enter, the password remains blank.

                         +      Version 0.1f      +

1) Fixed the name bug so that you can't have blank names
2) Fixed the changing of your name during the game so that it
   effectively cannot be done.
3) Modified the speed of attacks so they are more appropriate
   [ Read Craig's email in the forums about the penalties for
     using heavy armour in low levels ]
4) Fixed locked doors 
5) Modified Gates

                         +      Version 0.1e      +

This release contains the following updates:

1)  Misc. small items (These always exist)
2)  Modified calculation of Secondary Character Statistics upon training
3)  Modified training levels so that you get additional CP to assign to 
    your character.  Fixed the Character Editor so that it will use 
    these CP properly.  NOTE that any characters created prior to this 
    update will not qualify for this fix.  You must reroll your characters
    to get this value.
4)  Added the 'R' Release Notes option to the main menu (Created a release
    notes file!)
5)  Added the 'Experience' command 
6)  Modified the menu to display a prompt after a choice (such as topten) 
    instead of the whole menu.
7)  Fixed the <invalid pointer> when buy a spell which was too expensive
8)  Fixed the experience earned when casting a spell on a monster
9)  Fixed the mana used when a spell fails
10) Some more performance enhancements
